now two active members of the US
military are seeking resignations on
conscientious grounds over American
complicity in the warn Gaza Air Force
personnel Larry abar and xan betancort
say they can no longer be complicit in
Israeli war crimes that are being aided
and abetted by the country they signed
up to serve us anti-war organization
estimates there are at least 40 other
military personnel seeking resignations
on the same
grounds well Larry abber a senior Airman
on active duty in the United States Air
Force joins us now he does not speak for
the military he's speaking for himself
he joins us from Rota in Spain thank you
so much for your time sir how difficult
was it for you to come to this decision
to leave the mil military what led you
to this
point yeah and thank you um for me it
honestly wasn't a difficult decision um
me joining the military in the first
place was uh partially due
to I mean all of us we want to serve
people uh the American people
specifically obviously but
um there's no
um there's no serving the American
people in uh in our current policies um
we're doing a disservice to to people
around the world and uh and I strongly
feel that so that's why I had to to
apply for as a conscientious objector um
which has a long history in other
conflicts as well as uh Vietnam and Iraq
so um I'm actually proud to uh kind of
you know go in the footsteps of our uh
of our prior conscientious obors and at
what point during the war over the
course of the last eight months did you
go okay I've had enough I can't do this
anymore
honestly really early on um I think in
November I I actually learned about uh
conscience Insurance objecting uh and I
looked more into it and I didn't know if
I would qualify or not um but the I
think a lot of service members don't
actually know
entirely uh what it is and and uh what
their rights are and so I think it's
extremely important to uh highlight uh
conscien conscientious uh objector and
and show people like uh it that it is an
option and you can take it I think a lot
of service members uh feel that they
they don't know what to do and and they
don't know how to
um how to act in this moment in in the
past almost a year now um and I think
this
is applying for separation whether it be
through contad subjection uh or another
form of administrative separation um um
is going to go a long way Larry
apologize for interrupting but how have
your superiors and colleagues re reacted
to your decision to do
this um well it doesn't really uh go
internally I haven't really been super
public with it until now um but when I
have brought it up to certain people
well they haven't really uh they've
never either heard of the term or um so
I I've had to explain what it is to
people uh but yeah and what do they make
of the reasons you give them that you
are leaving that that you want to leave
the
Army uh I don't think a ton of people
actually have an opinion I think uh most
people are kind of focused on their own
careers and their own lives um I don't
think many people have an opinion either
way and and what about your colleagues
how how do they generally view the war
in Gaza is it something that's on
everyone's radar do you discuss it um
discuss the US's support for
Israel yeah it's sort of a taboo subject
um many people won't speak on the issue
because um if you I I think most people
can can agree that um what is going on
is wrong uh in in almost every way but
uh to speak on it while in service uh is
basically taboo because you'd be
speaking against uh US policy um and so
I think a lot of people are afraid to
even touch the
topic you also went on a hunger strike
earlier this year which can't have been
uh very easy and and presumably very
difficult for those close to you what
why did you make that decision
um I got to a breaking point where I
just didn't know what to do and um
another major reason for it was uh the
self imulation of Aon bushnel um and the
silence afterwards of our leadership uh
in the military and uh in the government
uh nobody would even speak say his name
uh and he was an active duty uh service
member so it it was um for me a pretty
easy decision to to just go straight to
DC and and try to figure out um how I
can help and how I can uh put my voice
out there and how did how did your uh
how did the Army react when you did that
I believe you did it when you were on
leave y so I I I took leave and I went
to DC um and I tried different forms of
uh protest and and other ways to help um
and then uh yeah they recalled me from
my leaf and sent me back after I tried
to speak to the chief of staff um but
ultimately it it ended up in a letter of
reprimand uh which isn't a major form of
punishment at all so uh I think for
other people who are looking to do
something uh I I wouldn't discourage
anyone from uh acting in protest and you
have small children I believe and uh
have really been affected by some of the
images you've seen from this war can you
talk us through how you
felt uh yeah I'm not sure how anyone can
see the uh images coming out of Gaza not
feel um some sort of way uh I think a
lot of people may try
to avoid uh looking but I I can't I feel
like I can't do that as a father and as
a service member um and so uh it's been
disturbing
to see children that look just like my
own um dead and and um named in in that
fashion and uh yeah again it was a very
easy decision to come to this conclusion
and uh and oppose what's going on really
good to uh speak to you Larry I senior
Airman on active duty United States Air
Force thank you for speaking to Al jazer
thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer